Add docs page for Miele integration (#38438)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/miele.markdown

---
title: Miele
description: Instructions on how to set up the Miele integration within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Hub
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push

> ha_release: '2025.5.0'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2025.5
```

ha_domain: miele
ha_codeowners:
  - '@astrandb'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The Miele integration allows users to integrate their home appliances using the [official 3rd party API](https://www.miele.com/developer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Miele {% term integrations %} allows users to integrate their home appliances using the [official 3rd party API](https://www.miele.com/developer).
```

> Miele is known as a manufacturer of premium appliances for cooking, laundry care and floorcare.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Miele is known as a manufacturer of premium appliances for cooking, laundry care, and floorcare.
```

Author: I always miss the Oxford comma. It is considered bad style in my native language Swedish...

Reviewer 2: aha, sorry to cause you style-pain :smile: I can't think of a specific one right now, but I'm sure I also have my style habits..

> The Miele integration allows users to integrate their home appliances using the [official 3rd party API](https://www.miele.com/developer). The integration will make the best effort to map the data-points in the API to sensors, switches, etc. in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Miele integration allows users to integrate their home appliances using the [official 3rd party API](https://www.miele.com/developer).
```
I think this is always the case

> The Miele integration allows users to integrate their home appliances using the [official 3rd party API](https://www.miele.com/developer). The integration will make the best effort to map the data-points in the API to sensors, switches, etc. in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: I think a bit more overview about what Miele is is nice

Author: Well, I copied this line from their corporate web and downgraded it somewhat.

- Monitor the multiple sensors of the appliance and trigger automations based on these sensors.
- Monitor the program status of the appliances.

{% note %}
Note that the feature availability depends on the appliance model.
{% endnote %}

## Supported devices

> You can find information about supported devices on the [Miele website](https://www.miele.com/developer/capabilities.html).

Reviewer: I think its a bit more complicated, because we also need to support the device in HA

Author: Well all known device types has a status sensor so they are supported in that sense. When new platforms and new entity descriptions are added the coverage will grow gradually.

Reviewer: Right but can we be a bit more specific?
"We support all Miele devices that work with ......"

As in, if I buy a Miele that is 15 years old, it wouldn't work most likely, so what do I need to know if I am standing in the store to know if it would work or not?

Author: An 8-10 years old machine would work if it is compatible with their cloud service. Modern devices have built in wifi, but older use a "black box" to connect to the cloud. 
I can try to elaborate.

{% important %}

- The provided Miele User Account email address must be all lowercase; otherwise, it will result in authentication failures.
- The password should not contain any special characters. Even though it works in the Miele app, it may not work with the API.
- Allow a couple of minutes to get the activation email. All changes in the developer portal take a couple of minutes before the change is implemented.

{% endimportant %}

{% details "I have manually disabled My Home Assistant" %}

If you don't have [My Home Assistant](/integrations/my) on your installation,
you can use `<HOME_ASSISTANT_URL>/auth/external/callback` as the redirect URI
instead.

The `<HOME_ASSISTANT_URL>` must be the same as used during the configuration/
authentication process.

Internal examples: `http://192.168.0.2:8123/auth/external/callback`, `http://homeassistant.local:8123/auth/external/callback`.

{% enddetails %}

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> The integration configuration will ask for the *Client ID* and *Client Secret* created above. See [Application Credentials](/integrations/application_credentials) for more details.

Reviewer: As we want to use account linking, I would put this in a details thing

## Supported functionality

{% note %}

- The entities' availability depends on the appliance type and the generation of the product, and the appliance might not support all the entities for its type.
- Products from professional and semi-professional series are generally not supported due to the limitations in the Miele 3rd party API.
- Some appliances don't report data while they are turned off, so corresponding entities will not appear in the Miele integration after loading until the appliances are turned on.
{% endnote %}

### Sensor

{% details "List of sensors" %}

- **Operation state**:

>   - **Status**: Represents the current operation state of the device. The default entity name is just the appliance type, e.g., "Dishwasher".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Status**: Represents the current operation state of the device. The default entity name is just the appliance type. For example, "Dishwasher".
```

## Automation examples

Get started with these automation examples

### Send a notification when the appliance ends the program

{% details "Example YAML configuration" %}

{% raw %}

```yaml
alias: "Notify when program ends"
triggers:
  - trigger: state
    entity_id:
      - sensor.washing_machine
    to: program_ended
actions:
  - service: notify.notify
    data:
      message: "The appliance has finished the program."
```

{% endraw %}
{% enddetails %}

## Data updates

This integration uses server-sent events from the Miele API to receive live updates from the appliances.
When the configuration entry is loaded or after a streaming error (for example after disconnection), the integration will request all data (such as appliance info, available commands, programs, settings, and status) for all appliances.

> If a new appliance is added to the account, the integration will request data for the new appliance and expose the related entities automatically after a reload of the integration.

Reviewer: It all sounds promising until the reload part of the integration, I would remove this as you might end up doing this dynamically anyway

## Known limitations

- The Miele 3rd party API does not fully match the Miele app. Some programs, options, or settings available in the app may not be accessible or usable via the API.
- This integration supports only one integration entry, as the Miele 3rd party API does not allow for the unique identification of an account.

## Troubleshooting

### Unavailable entities for a device

#### Symptom: "The entities related to an appliance were available but no longer are"

After reloading the Miele integration, the entities related to an appliance that used to be available are no longer available.

> Also, when downloading the diagnostics data from the device page, the technical data is obtained:

Reviewer: Why does this last sentence sound like something is coming but then nothing comes related to the first part of the sentence

##### Description

Unavailable entities can have multiple causes:

- The appliance is turned off. When it is turned off, the appliance is disconnected and the API does not retrieve information about the appliance.
- The appliance is experiencing a network issue.
- The Miele API is experiencing issues.

> ##### Solution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Resolution
```

To try to solve the above issues, follow these steps:

1. Turn on the appliance and reload the Miele integration.
2. If the appliance is turned on and the issue persists, check the network connection of the appliance and perform a soft reset on the appliance.
3. If the issue persists, check the connection of the appliance with the Miele API by checking it in the Miele app.
   1. Open the Miele app.
   2. Go to the appliance that is experiencing the issue.
   3. Press the cog-wheel to view more information.
4. If everything is correct and the issue persists, contact Miele support.
   - [Miele service and contact](https://www.miele.com/)
   - [Miele developer Help & Support](https://www.miele.com/developer)

## Removing the integration

This integration follows standard integration removal. No extra steps are required.

> {% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

Reviewer: I would also mention that if you use your own application credentials, that they can be removed at devices & Services -> 3 dots -> Application credentials.

I have so many people who create mistakes with that

Author: Many, many users of the cc also.

Author: Perhaps a global template that can be included by other OAuth2 integrations.

---
title: Miele
description: Instructions on how to set up the Miele integration within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Hub
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_release: '2025.5'
ha_domain: miele
ha_codeowners:
  - '@astrandb'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The Miele {% term integrations %} allows users to integrate their home appliances using the [official 3rd party API](https://www.miele.com/developer).

Miele is known as a manufacturer of premium appliances for cooking, laundry care, and floorcare.

## Use cases

- Monitor the multiple sensors of the appliance and trigger automations based on these sensors.
- Monitor the program status of the appliances.

{% note %}
Note that the feature availability depends on the appliance model.
{% endnote %}

## Supported devices

> You can find general information about supported devices on the [Miele website](https://www.miele.com/developer/capabilities.html).The integration supports any Miele appliance which is connected to a Miele user account. Miele WiFi Conn@ct appliances can be connected direct via a WiFi router, Miele Zigbee appliances must use the Miele@home Gateway XGW3000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find general information about supported devices on the [Miele website](https://www.miele.com/developer/capabilities.html). The integration supports any Miele appliance connected to a Miele user account. Miele WiFiConn@ct appliances can be connected directly via a Wi-Fi router. Miele Zigbee appliances must use the Miele@home Gateway XGW3000.
```

The appliance must be connected to the Miele CloudService by using the Miele app.

{% note %}
New generation washer/dryers and new generation vacuum cleaners:
Endpoints for the new generations are not yet available and will be released in the fall of 2025.
{% endnote %}

## Prerequisites

{% details "Manual entry of authentication credentials" %}

- Visit [https://www.miele.com/developer](https://www.miele.com/f/com/en/register_api.aspx) and sign up for a developer account.
- Enter an arbitrary name for your connection and the email of your login for the original Miele app.

> - On success, you will get an email with an activation link. Press the Activate button. Make note of the client ID and secret - you will need them for the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On success, you will get an email with an activation link. Press the **Activate** button. Make note of the client ID and secret - you will need them for the next step.
```

After reloading the Miele integration, the entities related to an appliance that used to be available are no longer available.

##### Description

Unavailable entities can have multiple causes:

- The appliance is turned off. When it is turned off, the appliance is disconnected and the API does not retrieve information about the appliance.
- The appliance is experiencing a network issue.
- The Miele API is experiencing issues.

##### Resolution

To try to solve the above issues, follow these steps:

1. Turn on the appliance and reload the Miele integration.
2. If the appliance is turned on and the issue persists, check the network connection of the appliance and perform a soft reset on the appliance.
3. If the issue persists, check the connection of the appliance with the Miele API by checking it in the Miele app.
   1. Open the Miele app.
   2. Go to the appliance that is experiencing the issue.
   3. Press the cog-wheel to view more information.
4. If everything is correct and the issue persists, contact Miele support.
   - [Miele service and contact](https://www.miele.com/)
   - [Miele developer Help & Support](https://www.miele.com/developer)

## Removing the integration

> This integration follows standard integration removal. If you have entered own credentials you will be asked if you want to keep them or to delete them. If you want to delete them later you can do that from the tree-dot menu in Settings->Device & services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration follows standard integration removal. If you have entered your own credentials, you will be asked if you want to keep them or delete them. If you want to delete them later you can do that from the tree-dot menu in {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %}.
```
